All right, so
let's test some UI components.
Here are the steps,
since I made made you all wait, [LAUGH].
We saw how to use the keyboard
to tab through a page,
that's always the first thing that I do.
And since we talked about click events and
wrapper elements,
I wanna call out the not everything has
to be interactive for screen reader.
That's kind of a common pitfall or
misconception.
I'll see people who are like, really,
I just learned about accessibility.
I'm gonna put tabindex on everything
cuz they don't quite understand how
screen readers work, screen readers
have other ways to navigate.
Tab key is not the only way, you can
navigate by headings, you can navigate to
the next list, the next table, and
those don't have to have tabindex on them.
It's only for things that are interactive.
Things that like a mouse user and a
keyboard user should be able to reach and
operate.
Can you see where you are?
Do you have a focus outline?
For compound widgets like date picker,
tab switchers,
some more like desktop style
menus that have full aria roles.
Those are use cases for the arrow keys.
We wanna run a browser extension
like Axe or Accessibility Insights.
We'll run some in a second.
And test the heading structure, tools I
like are the Web Developer toolbar, and
one I just learned about
called the headings map.
I need to add it to this, it's great.
And you could debug elements,
I usually go between Axe and the DevTools.
We want to zoom in.
So, I mean, it's straight up,
just like Command Plus or Control Plus,
minus zoom in to at least 200%.
See that everything
reflows into one column.
That is a WCAG success criterion,
it's called reflow.
Make sure your components are not broken.
You don't wanna have to
horizontally scroll or
have half of a component be off-screen.
If I click here and
my toast is invisible, what happens then?
Yeah, sound like you knew all
about reflow now, [LAUGH].
Further down the list, much further down
the list, I have tests with a screen
reader like VoiceOver or NVDA, that can
be a bit advanced with a learning curve.
But we have some cheat sheets
that are very helpful for
that more in our accessible naming and
aria section.
And then, check for
that animation in motion autoplaying,
it kind of jumps out at you
once you know to look for,
it's like whoa this is moving, I thought
I had reduced motion on all the time.
Go check, yap that's not responding, so
you know that's an issue that is also
multiple success criteria around that one.
And then make note of any missing media
for any video, audio with spoken word.
We need captions and transcripts, so
that our deaf colleagues and users and
friends can participate cuz it's pretty
exclusionary to not have the ability to
follow along when you can't hear.
So sometimes, it might have been
missed in the content strategy or
something, if you if you
notice that speak up because
it's better to speak up then just let
that go and never get those assets.
All right, so let's do some testing and
our goal, where this is some manual steps,
we wanna bake as much of this
into the code as possible, and
we'll discuss later on automation.
But kind of our first thing that we
can do is evaluate with this workflow.
So let's go do some testing.
I'll actually go back over to Stripe and
do this.
So we tested with the keyboard.
Let's run axe DevTools, which is a free
browser extension for Chrome and Firefox.
There's kind of these paid parts for
guided testing.
They have evolved these tools over time,
they're really great.
But the free scan all of
my page thing is so solid,
it's what I call my daily driver tool.
I use it every day, pretty much.
So I ran the page as rendered.
So it's not gonna test that open mega
menu, it's not gonna test modals.
They ignore stuff that's hidden on purpose
cuz it's not in a state that's ready.
So you wanna run it
again with those states.
But this returned color contrast issues,
and I'm gonna go over here and
see, so
there's best practices are turned off.
If I turn that on,
they have a way more issues, but
best practices are not legally binding.
There are things that we wanna fix,
but the violations are like,
if you're focused on compliance,
do the violations first.
It also tells you what
standard they're meeting or
aiming to help you with and
that's WCAG 2.1 AA.
There's also in here, so we have best
practices, there's no guided issues
being returned, but Axe does have
this concept of needs review.
I used to work on this tool,
that's why I know so much about it.
And so, yeah, they might have changed
the way that needs review works,
but a good example historically was
the text colors over gradients.
They would just like,
if there's a background image,
it just goes straight into needs review.
I think those might be under
the guided issues now,
which is it might be in a totally
different part of this.
But you're at least gonna get
things that are actionable.
I can hit Highlight to see where it
is on the screen, so that's helpful.
I can also go down here to this
Inspect element button and
hop over to the DevTools
element inspector.
And that often, for color contrast,
I can go over here and
click on this little color picker.
And in many cases, not all, it will
give me this contrast ratio picker,
so I can actually drag around,
so it's a blue color over white.
So if I make it slightly darker,
I guess it, did it meet?
Was it like just barely not meeting too?
>> 4.5, and you're at 4.4.
>> It was 4.44 when the expected ratio for
that font size is 4.5 to 1,
that's so close.
So for that one, I could probably drag it,
fiddle it, change it slightly,
and no one will know.
[LAUGH] I could probably get
away with that in this case.
But sometimes it's too different
to be able to do that.
So you can go through these results and
fix all of these, fix as many as you can.
Run this as often as you can.
You'll find all kinds of things that
you missed and weren't aware of.
So this is essential.
There's also Accessibility Insights,
the FastPass runs axe-core as well,
so it'll be really similar.
The Ad hoc tools are totally
worth checking out,
I can turn on headings and it will
show me what the heading levels are.
So the last one I'll show you is
the Web Developer Extension under,
say, blue by that.
So Web Developer Information,
View Document Outline,
will give me this overall picture.
Everything's in H1.
Nothing's important when
everything's important.
So there's no hierarchy here.
Yeah, the practice for headings is there
should be 1, H1 and then everything kind
of flows under that, sometimes It's really
hard to not have headings before your H1.
That's difficult and hard to avoid,
but in general we wanna try and
create a content hierarchy like an outline
in Word or Google Docs when you tab and
like have an indentation and icons and
that's what we can do with our headings.
So at least there's some flow to it,
that makes sense.
There's some H2s.
Nearly everything here is an H1, so
this tells me that they did
not test their heading levels.
It's just hard to tell what's the most
important thing when everything's the same
importance.
>> Surprise that got by the SEO people.
[LAUGH] I feel like the SEO people
wouldn't like that either, [LAUGH].
>> Yeah, I mean things get missed.
So that's why we need this regular
process somewhere along the way.
So, we looked at zooming.
We're gonna look at screen readers in the
next section, we've even seen some motion
and that could be targeted with CSS kind
of depending on how that motion is done.
If it's done with JavaScript, you can
target it with JavaScript matchMedia, or
you can use CSS media queries and
turn motion off, and so, yeah,
that's kind of my basic steps.
If you did the keyboard part and
the browser extensions and zoom in,
you could fix a lot of stuff.
I bet that list of 1100 issues
would have been a fraction of that.
If we just do this regularly, cuz there's
so many easy wins that we could do and
it feels so good to cross stuff off lists,
I gotta tell you, like it's satisfying.
When you have all those results and you
hit re-run scan and you see it drop down,
you're like, I gotta get those.
If you can get your team
fired up about that,
you're gonna smash some accessibility
bugs, and that feels good.
>> Yeah, we crossed off 40 or
50 at a time by just adding alt text to
the search results and stuff like that.
>> Yeah, and sometimes that's in
a template like your landmarks.
You might have multiple failures for
something that are tied
to a single component.
So you can watch that dramatically drop
because you targeted it at the source,
like a component that gets reused,
if you can fix it there, then you can
stand back and watch those results
come down, those failures come down.
Is there a question?
>> Is it okay to use H1s as
headings within sections?
I've seen it both ways,
only one per page versus one per section.
>> Great question.
So, there was a, for a while they're
a movement, I don't know if it ever became
a standard or anything, but
to allow you to have more than 1,H1,
where you could have excerpts and
they're supposed to be more portable.
Unfortunately, they were never really
implemented for assistive technology.
So, for accessibility purposes,
we say only 1, H1.
And you try to go in order,
H1, H2, H3, H4.
And then once you've met H4,
you can kind of skip around, but
I would say having headings at all,
that's gonna be the most helpful.
Having some sort of a structure,
like all H1s that,
I've heard both sides
from screen reader users.
Some people are really bothered by it and
blocked by it.
For other people, it's not as big of
an issue, but I think headings are,
they're pretty foundational in WCAG,
like the info and relationships criterion.
I think there's some others that really
target this type of semantic structure.
So, if you're looking for compliance,
it is something you need to do.
And the more than 1, H1 thing was just
never really, that ship never sailed.
So, yeah, unfortunately,
we haven't been able to do that.
But that's why I mentioned that approach
with react and context, you might be able
to use some tooling to help you pick the
right heading level in a design system or,
I don't know, a web application
with some innovation or creativity.